Contributor & Authorship Tracking
=================================
Rever helps you keep up-to-date with who is contributing to your project.
This is through the ``authors`` activity. To get started, just add
``authors`` to your activities and then run ``rever setup``.

**rever.xsh:**

.. code-block:: xonsh

    $ACTIVITIES = ["authors"]

And then run,

.. code-block:: sh

    $ rever setup

The above generates a few files for us and can be applied even to an existing
project. By default, the author setup creates:

* ``AUTHORS``, a plain-text listing of the authors
* ``.authors.yml``, a YAML file for storing an configuring contributor information
* ``.mailmap``, a git file for mapping names and emails to alternatives.

These filenames can be configured via the ``$AUTHORS_FILENAME``,
``$AUTHORS_METADATA``, and ``$AUTHORS_MAILMAP``, environment variables in the
``rever.xsh`` file, as with other activities.

If you have a long running, project, you may need to seed the ``.authors.yml``
metadata file with some information that disambiguate your contributors
before ``rever setup`` will complete successfully. Don't worry! This is
totally normal and rever will present best guesses for you to choose from
in order to obtain a clean set of metadata.

Metadata Format
---------------
The metadata that is kept about authors is a mix of manually-supplied, optional
information (such as GitHub usernames) and data that can be mined from
version control (such as emails, number of commits, etc.).  The YAML file is a
list of mappings as follows:

**authors.yaml:**

.. code-block:: yaml

    # required fields
    - name: Princess Buttercup
      email: buttercup@florin.gov

    # optional fields
      github: bcup
      is_org: False
      aliases:
        - Buttercup
        - beecup
      alternate_emails:
        - b.cup@gmail.com

    # autogenerated fields
      num_commits: 1000
      first_commit: '1987-09-25'
    - name: Westley
      email: westley@gamil.com
      github: westley
      aliases:
        - Dread Pirate Roberts
      alternate_emails:
        - dpr@pirates.biz
    - name: Florin
      email: help@florin.gov
      github: florin
      is_org: True


Feel free to edit this file as much as you want, especially for ``aliases``
and ``alternate_email``. It is the source of all downstream information.
The ``rever setup`` command will generate a minimal version of this file
that contains names and emails.  Every release, the ``num_commits`` and
``first_commit`` fields will be recomputed and the metadata will be
written back out.

AUTHORS File
------------
The authors file is generated from the metadata and the following environment
variables:

* ``$AUTHORS_TEMPLATE``: string that dictated how the authors file looks.
  It has the format keys ``sorting_text`` and ``authors``
* ``$AUTHORS_FORMAT``: string the dictates how each author is formatted in the
  file. The fields of this string are the same as for the metadata.
* ``$AUTHORS_SORTBY``: string flag that specifies how authors should be sorted in
  the authors file. Valid options are:

  * ``"num_commits"``: Number of commits per author
  * ``"first_commit"``: Sort by first commit.
  * ``"alpha"``: Alphabetically.

So for example, the following configuration,

**rever.xsh:**

.. code-block:: rever

    $PROJECT = "acme"
    $ACTIVITIES = ["authors"]

    $AUTHORS_FILENAME = "AUTHORS.md"
    $AUTHORS_TEMPLATE = """
    The $PROJECT project has some great contributors! They are:

    {authors}

    These have been sorted {sorting_text}.
    """
    $AUTHORS_FORMAT= "* [{name}](https://github.com/{github})\n"
    $AUTHORS_SORTBY = "alpha"

And say that Alice and Bob are our contributors, then we would generate:

**AUTHORS.md:**

.. code-block:: markdown

    The acme project has some great contributors! They are:

    * [Alice](https://github.com/al1ce)
    * [Bob](https://github.com/b0b)

    These have been sorted alphabetically.


Latest Contributors
-------------------
Additionally, the authors activity will generate a file that stores the (sorted)
emails of all of the contributors since the last tag. This file is usually at
``$REVER_DIR/LATEST-AUTHORS.json``, but may be configured by ``$AUTHORS_LATEST``.
This allows other activities (such as ``changelog``) to access the list of
all contributors for a particular version. Since this operates from the last
tag, it is important to run the ``authors`` activity before the ``tag`` activity.
